# 7C5 The Structure of the Earth

## Question 1

The diagram shows four different layers of sedimentary rock in a cliff.

![A diagram that shows a cliff face drawn in monochrome. The lowest layer of the diagram is a rippled line labelled “sea”. Extending above the sea and to the left is a multi-layered cliff-face. The lowest layer has a spottled pattern and is labelled “D”. The next layer above is a horizontal line-filled layer about half the size of layer D, and is labelled “C”. The layer above resembles a brick pattern and is labelled “B”. The final layer at the top is a spotted layer labelled “A”.]

### Question 1a
Which layer of the cliff, A, B, C or D, is probably the oldest?

Igneous rock is formed when magma cools. Choose from the following words to complete the sentences below: gas, liquid, metal, solid

### Question 1bi
Igneous rock is a ...

### Question 1bii
Magma is a ...

Rocks are put into groups according to the way they are formed. The groups are igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary.

### Question 1ci
To which group does sandstone belong?

### Question 1cii
In which group are fossils never found?

## Question 2

The diagram gives information about some of the layers that make up the Earth.

![A diagram showing the structure of the earth as a circle surrounded by three concentric rings. The circle in the middle is labelled, "inner core". The ring around the inner core is labelled, "outer core". The ring around the outer core is labelled "mantle". The ring around the mantle is labelled, "X".]

### Question 2i
What name is given to the outer layer of the Earth labelled X?

### Question 2ii
What is the difference between the inner core and the outer core?
